## MEEO_AWS_SENTINEL-5P

Jupyter Notebooks and assciated documents for working with Sentinel-5P Level 2 data stored in the AWS S3 bucket S3://meeo-s5p

## Requirements

The following are some details about the software requirements to run the notbook. 

### Python 3 & Libraries

The notebooks included here use Python 3 and the floowing libraries:

- **boto3**. The library for working programmatically with AWS 
- **gdal**. The Geospatial Data Abstraction Library
- **cartopy**.  A cartographic python library with Matplotlib support for visualisation.
- **rasterio**. Rasterio is a highly useful module for raster processing which you can use for reading and writing several different raster formats in Python. It depends on gdal.

### Sentinel-5p Data

The Sentinel-5P data stored on AWS can be browsed [here](https://meeo-s5p.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html#/?t=catalogs).

### Summary

This data set consists of the Level 2 products generated from observations from the Sentinel-5P satellite. The Sentinel data is divided by type, described below:

- Near Real Time (NRTI): Products are available within 3 hours after sensing, shortly after that they will appear in the S3 bucket. These files are in the netCDF file format. Over time NRTI data gets replaced by OFFL data.

- Off Line (OFFL): For level 2 products this data is available about a week after the NRTI data, shortly afterwards they will appear in the S3 bucket. These files are in the netCDF file format and are of higher quality to the NRTI data.

- Cloud Optimised Geo-TIFF (COGT): These files are generated by MEEO from OFFL data shortly after the official Sentinel-5P data becomes available. These files are in the TIFF image file format.

- Reprocessed File (RPRO): From time to time there are new advances in product generation and ESA issues reprocessed files. These are converted into cloud optimised geo-tiff by MEEO.

The bucket contains the following S5P Level 2 products:

|  Parameter | Product Type (10 Characters wide)  | Parameter used to generate COGT  |
| ---------------|:-------------:|:-------------:| 
| Ozone (O3) total column |  L2__O3____ | ozone_total_vertical_column |
| Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2) | L2__NO2___ | nitrogendioxide_tropospheric_column |
| Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) total column | L2__SO2___ | sulfur_total_vertical_column_1k |
| Carbon Monoxide (CO) total column | L2__CO____ | carbonmonoxide_total_column |
| Methane (CH4) total column | L2__CH4___ | methane_mixing_ratio |
| Formaldehyde (HCHO) total column | L2__HCHO__ | formaldehyde_tropospheric_vertical_column |
| UV Aerosol Index | L2__AER_AI | aerosol_index_354_388 |

The full data desciption doucument can be read [here](https://github.com/Sentinel-5P/data-on-s3/blob/master/DocsForAws/Sentinel5P_Description.md).
